PA1_template.md, before:

# Reproducible Research: Peer Assessment 1







## Loading and preprocessing the data
1. Load the data

The raw file is in CSV format, so `read.csv` function will be used for loading the data.

```r
act <- read.csv("activity.csv")
```

2. Preprocess the data

The data has been in long-format, so I think that it isn't needed to preprocess the data any more.


## What is mean total number of steps taken per day?
1. Make the histogram

The histogram of the total number of steps taken each day is shown as:

```r
act.total <- act %>% filter(!is.na(steps)) %>% group_by(date) %>% summarise(total=sum(steps))
ph <- ggplot(act.total, aes(x=total)) + geom_histogram()
ph <- ph + labs(x="Total number of steps taken each day", y="Count")
ph
```

![](PA1_template_files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png) 

2. Calculate the mean and median

The **mean** and **median** total number of steps taken per day is shown as:

```r
act.mm <- act %>% filter(!is.na(steps)) %>% group_by(date) %>% summarise(mean=mean(steps), median=median(steps))
xt <- xtable(act.mm)
print(xt, type="html")
```

<!-- html table generated in R 3.2.3 by xtable 1.8-0 package -->
<!-- Sat Dec 12 11:50:04 2015 -->
<table border=1>
<tr> <th>  </th> <th> date </th> <th> mean </th> <th> median </th>  </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 1 </td> <td> 2012-10-02 </td> <td align="right"> 0.44 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 2 </td> <td> 2012-10-03 </td> <td align="right"> 39.42 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 3 </td> <td> 2012-10-04 </td> <td align="right"> 42.07 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 4 </td> <td> 2012-10-05 </td> <td align="right"> 46.16 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 5 </td> <td> 2012-10-06 </td> <td align="right"> 53.54 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 6 </td> <td> 2012-10-07 </td> <td align="right"> 38.25 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 7 </td> <td> 2012-10-09 </td> <td align="right"> 44.48 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 8 </td> <td> 2012-10-10 </td> <td align="right"> 34.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 9 </td> <td> 2012-10-11 </td> <td align="right"> 35.78 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 10 </td> <td> 2012-10-12 </td> <td align="right"> 60.35 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 11 </td> <td> 2012-10-13 </td> <td align="right"> 43.15 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 12 </td> <td> 2012-10-14 </td> <td align="right"> 52.42 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 13 </td> <td> 2012-10-15 </td> <td align="right"> 35.20 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 14 </td> <td> 2012-10-16 </td> <td align="right"> 52.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 15 </td> <td> 2012-10-17 </td> <td align="right"> 46.71 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 16 </td> <td> 2012-10-18 </td> <td align="right"> 34.92 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 17 </td> <td> 2012-10-19 </td> <td align="right"> 41.07 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 18 </td> <td> 2012-10-20 </td> <td align="right"> 36.09 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 19 </td> <td> 2012-10-21 </td> <td align="right"> 30.63 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 20 </td> <td> 2012-10-22 </td> <td align="right"> 46.74 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 21 </td> <td> 2012-10-23 </td> <td align="right"> 30.97 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 22 </td> <td> 2012-10-24 </td> <td align="right"> 29.01 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 23 </td> <td> 2012-10-25 </td> <td align="right"> 8.65 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 24 </td> <td> 2012-10-26 </td> <td align="right"> 23.53 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 25 </td> <td> 2012-10-27 </td> <td align="right"> 35.14 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 26 </td> <td> 2012-10-28 </td> <td align="right"> 39.78 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 27 </td> <td> 2012-10-29 </td> <td align="right"> 17.42 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 28 </td> <td> 2012-10-30 </td> <td align="right"> 34.09 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 29 </td> <td> 2012-10-31 </td> <td align="right"> 53.52 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 30 </td> <td> 2012-11-02 </td> <td align="right"> 36.81 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 31 </td> <td> 2012-11-03 </td> <td align="right"> 36.70 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 32 </td> <td> 2012-11-05 </td> <td align="right"> 36.25 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 33 </td> <td> 2012-11-06 </td> <td align="right"> 28.94 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 34 </td> <td> 2012-11-07 </td> <td align="right"> 44.73 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 35 </td> <td> 2012-11-08 </td> <td align="right"> 11.18 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 36 </td> <td> 2012-11-11 </td> <td align="right"> 43.78 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 37 </td> <td> 2012-11-12 </td> <td align="right"> 37.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 38 </td> <td> 2012-11-13 </td> <td align="right"> 25.47 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 39 </td> <td> 2012-11-15 </td> <td align="right"> 0.14 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 40 </td> <td> 2012-11-16 </td> <td align="right"> 18.89 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 41 </td> <td> 2012-11-17 </td> <td align="right"> 49.79 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 42 </td> <td> 2012-11-18 </td> <td align="right"> 52.47 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 43 </td> <td> 2012-11-19 </td> <td align="right"> 30.70 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 44 </td> <td> 2012-11-20 </td> <td align="right"> 15.53 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 45 </td> <td> 2012-11-21 </td> <td align="right"> 44.40 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 46 </td> <td> 2012-11-22 </td> <td align="right"> 70.93 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 47 </td> <td> 2012-11-23 </td> <td align="right"> 73.59 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 48 </td> <td> 2012-11-24 </td> <td align="right"> 50.27 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 49 </td> <td> 2012-11-25 </td> <td align="right"> 41.09 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 50 </td> <td> 2012-11-26 </td> <td align="right"> 38.76 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 51 </td> <td> 2012-11-27 </td> <td align="right"> 47.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 52 </td> <td> 2012-11-28 </td> <td align="right"> 35.36 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 53 </td> <td> 2012-11-29 </td> <td align="right"> 24.47 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
   </table>


## What is the average daily activity pattern?



## Imputing missing values



## Are there differences in activity patterns between weekdays and weekends?

Commit message:

Find the average daily activity pattern

PA1_template.md, after:

# Reproducible Research: Peer Assessment 1







## Loading and preprocessing the data
1. Load the data

The raw file is in CSV format, so `read.csv` function will be used for loading the data.

```r
act <- read.csv("activity.csv")
```

2. Preprocess the data

The data has been in long-format, so I think that it isn't needed to preprocess the data any more.


## What is mean total number of steps taken per day?
1. Make the histogram

The histogram of the total number of steps taken each day is shown as:

```r
act.total <- act %>% filter(!is.na(steps)) %>% group_by(date) %>% summarise(total=sum(steps))
ph <- ggplot(act.total, aes(x=total)) + geom_histogram()
ph <- ph + labs(x="Total number of steps taken each day", y="Count")
ph
```

![](PA1_template_files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png) 

2. Calculate the mean and median

The **mean** and **median** total number of steps taken per day is shown as:

```r
act.mm <- act %>% filter(!is.na(steps)) %>% group_by(date) %>% summarise(mean=mean(steps), median=median(steps))
xt <- xtable(act.mm)
print(xt, type="html")
```

<!-- html table generated in R 3.2.3 by xtable 1.8-0 package -->
<!-- Sat Dec 12 11:51:30 2015 -->
<table border=1>
<tr> <th>  </th> <th> date </th> <th> mean </th> <th> median </th>  </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 1 </td> <td> 2012-10-02 </td> <td align="right"> 0.44 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 2 </td> <td> 2012-10-03 </td> <td align="right"> 39.42 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 3 </td> <td> 2012-10-04 </td> <td align="right"> 42.07 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 4 </td> <td> 2012-10-05 </td> <td align="right"> 46.16 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 5 </td> <td> 2012-10-06 </td> <td align="right"> 53.54 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 6 </td> <td> 2012-10-07 </td> <td align="right"> 38.25 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 7 </td> <td> 2012-10-09 </td> <td align="right"> 44.48 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 8 </td> <td> 2012-10-10 </td> <td align="right"> 34.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 9 </td> <td> 2012-10-11 </td> <td align="right"> 35.78 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 10 </td> <td> 2012-10-12 </td> <td align="right"> 60.35 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 11 </td> <td> 2012-10-13 </td> <td align="right"> 43.15 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 12 </td> <td> 2012-10-14 </td> <td align="right"> 52.42 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 13 </td> <td> 2012-10-15 </td> <td align="right"> 35.20 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 14 </td> <td> 2012-10-16 </td> <td align="right"> 52.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 15 </td> <td> 2012-10-17 </td> <td align="right"> 46.71 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 16 </td> <td> 2012-10-18 </td> <td align="right"> 34.92 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 17 </td> <td> 2012-10-19 </td> <td align="right"> 41.07 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 18 </td> <td> 2012-10-20 </td> <td align="right"> 36.09 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 19 </td> <td> 2012-10-21 </td> <td align="right"> 30.63 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 20 </td> <td> 2012-10-22 </td> <td align="right"> 46.74 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 21 </td> <td> 2012-10-23 </td> <td align="right"> 30.97 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 22 </td> <td> 2012-10-24 </td> <td align="right"> 29.01 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 23 </td> <td> 2012-10-25 </td> <td align="right"> 8.65 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 24 </td> <td> 2012-10-26 </td> <td align="right"> 23.53 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 25 </td> <td> 2012-10-27 </td> <td align="right"> 35.14 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 26 </td> <td> 2012-10-28 </td> <td align="right"> 39.78 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 27 </td> <td> 2012-10-29 </td> <td align="right"> 17.42 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 28 </td> <td> 2012-10-30 </td> <td align="right"> 34.09 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 29 </td> <td> 2012-10-31 </td> <td align="right"> 53.52 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 30 </td> <td> 2012-11-02 </td> <td align="right"> 36.81 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 31 </td> <td> 2012-11-03 </td> <td align="right"> 36.70 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 32 </td> <td> 2012-11-05 </td> <td align="right"> 36.25 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 33 </td> <td> 2012-11-06 </td> <td align="right"> 28.94 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 34 </td> <td> 2012-11-07 </td> <td align="right"> 44.73 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 35 </td> <td> 2012-11-08 </td> <td align="right"> 11.18 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 36 </td> <td> 2012-11-11 </td> <td align="right"> 43.78 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 37 </td> <td> 2012-11-12 </td> <td align="right"> 37.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 38 </td> <td> 2012-11-13 </td> <td align="right"> 25.47 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 39 </td> <td> 2012-11-15 </td> <td align="right"> 0.14 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 40 </td> <td> 2012-11-16 </td> <td align="right"> 18.89 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 41 </td> <td> 2012-11-17 </td> <td align="right"> 49.79 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 42 </td> <td> 2012-11-18 </td> <td align="right"> 52.47 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 43 </td> <td> 2012-11-19 </td> <td align="right"> 30.70 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 44 </td> <td> 2012-11-20 </td> <td align="right"> 15.53 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 45 </td> <td> 2012-11-21 </td> <td align="right"> 44.40 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 46 </td> <td> 2012-11-22 </td> <td align="right"> 70.93 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 47 </td> <td> 2012-11-23 </td> <td align="right"> 73.59 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 48 </td> <td> 2012-11-24 </td> <td align="right"> 50.27 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 49 </td> <td> 2012-11-25 </td> <td align="right"> 41.09 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 50 </td> <td> 2012-11-26 </td> <td align="right"> 38.76 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 51 </td> <td> 2012-11-27 </td> <td align="right"> 47.38 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 52 </td> <td> 2012-11-28 </td> <td align="right"> 35.36 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 53 </td> <td> 2012-11-29 </td> <td align="right"> 24.47 </td> <td align="right"> 0.00 </td> </tr>
   </table>


## What is the average daily activity pattern?
1. Make the time series plot

The time series plot ot the 5-minute interval (x-axis) and the average number of steps taken, averaged across all days (y-axis), is shown as:

```r
act.ave <- act %>% filter(!is.na(steps)) %>% group_by(interval) %>% summarise(ave=mean(steps))
pt <- ggplot(act.ave, aes(x=interval, y=ave)) + geom_line()
pt <- pt + labs(x="5-minute interval", y="Average number of steps")
pt
```

![](PA1_template_files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png) 

2. Find the maximum

The 5-minute interval, on average across all the days in the dataset, contains the maximum number of steps, is:

```r
act.ave.max <- act.ave %>% arrange(desc(ave)) %>% top_n(1)
xt <- xtable(act.ave.max)
print(xt, type="html")
```

<!-- html table generated in R 3.2.3 by xtable 1.8-0 package -->
<!-- Sat Dec 12 11:51:31 2015 -->
<table border=1>
<tr> <th>  </th> <th> interval </th> <th> ave </th>  </tr>
  <tr> <td align="right"> 1 </td> <td align="right"> 835 </td> <td align="right"> 206.17 </td> </tr>
   </table>


## Imputing missing values



## Are there differences in activity patterns between weekdays and weekends?
